|ch01|
|----|
|Networking|

# Computer Networks.

**Computer Networking's** main purpose is to enable several devices to communicate with each other to share and exchange resources. Network computer devices that send, receive data within a network are called network nodes.

Usually, nodes include **hosts** such as _PCs, servers, phones,_ but also _network hardware<sup>[1]</sup>_. Two such devices are said to _networked_ when one of them is able to exchange information with the other.Nodes are generally linked with the help of:

- cables, most commonly the *Ethernet cable*.
- telephone lines
- radio waves, enabling _wireless_ connection.
- satellites

Even though the connectivity is taken as granted nowadays and all devices can connect to the network, this wasn't always the case. While modern devices have network devices integrated into their circuit borads, older ones counting PCs or XBox game consoles need a _peripheral_ network device such as _USB adapters_ or _Network Interface Cards_(**NIC**). At the same time, some devices can't connect to the network at all.

The largest and the most known computer network is the **Internet**. This world-wide system of interconnected smaller networks enables millions of devices to communicate with each other.

----------
###### Footnotes
1. **Network Hardware**: These physical devives which are required for communication and interaction between devices on a computer network. Specifically, they mediate data in computer network, _e.g._ routers, modems, switches.

[next](./2.Packets.md)
