|ch02|
|---|
|Packets|

## Packet

**Think of packets<sup>[1]</sup> as the simplest unit of communication in computer networks.** Whatever the nature of the communication over a computer network might be, data must be sent and received. 

_Data transmission_:- the action of sending data over a network works in the following way:

- original data is broken down in smaller structure of data- `packets`
- `packets` are transmitted followiingthe rules of the _protocol_ used.
- when `packets` reach their destination, they are _reassembled_ into the original data.

A packet is composed of **header** and a **payload**(the actual data sent). The content of the header depends on the protocol used for transmission. Over the internet, where _IP_(Internal Protocol) is the standard, packets **header** needs to have:

- source IP address
- destination IP address
- type of service(used for optimizations)
- flags
- other technical data

In the latter type of networks, packets are sent over the internet through _nodes_<sup>[2]</sup>(devices and routers) positioned between the _source_ and _destination_.

## The Packet Loss.

**Packet loss** is a phenomenon that happens when packets sent accross a computer network fail to reach their intended destination. They can br lost on their way or, more often, intentionally dropped. The latter happens because packets sent through a _router_ or a _network segment_ arrive at a greater rate than the router is able to process. As a consequence, there is no other option than to _drop_ them.

**Packet loss** is also used as a relevant metric for the performance od a network, measured as the percentage of packets ost with respect to packets sent. The causes of packet loss vary, yet the most common ones are:

- `link congestion`: network devices intentionally drop packets.
- `device performance`: hardware devices can't physically keep up<sup>[3]</sup>.
- `software issues` on network devices that can go indetected<sup>[4]</sup>
- _faulty hardware of cabling_

Packet loss is common and normal<sup>[5]</sup> thing, but at an acceptable rate. For example, for **VoIP**, traffic losses is between `5%` and `10%` will significantly affect the quality, while for video and audio streaming `1%` is _good_ and `2.5%` acceptable.

------
###### Footnotes.
1. **PACKETS**
	- other relavant terms for _packets_ are datagrams, segments, blocks, cells and even frames, depending on the protocol used for data transmission.
2. **HOW TO NODES WORK?**
	- Contrary to _traditional lines_ of communcation, such as telephone lines, where there must be a continuous physical link between the source and destination, modem networks work on a different concept. Packets are routed from _source_ to _destination_, going through **nodes**. At each node calculations are made deciding the most efficient route of reaching the destination. 
3. **DEVICE PERFORMANCE**
	- Routers, Switches, Firewalls are typical devices whose **CPU** or _memory_ can be maxed out. Therefore, they can't allow additional traffic to go through them and will result in _packet loss_.
4. **SOFTWARE ISSUES**
	- As software written for _network devices_ is not perfect, bugs might occur undetected. Therefore, it's highly recommended to always update drivers and such software to the latest verions.
5. **PACKET LOSS**
	- TCP will detect packet los and will _resend_ packets that don't get to their destination to ensure reliable communication and avoid congestion. Howereve, media streaming, VoIP or video games don't use TCP, but UDP that doesn't handle packet loss.

[prev](./1.Networking.md) | [next](./3.Protocols.md)	
