|ch03|
|----|
|Protocol|

## Protocol

**Networks** enable two or more devices to communicate. As in real life, for two parties to communicate efficiently, there is a need to follow some rules. With regard to computer networks, these sets of rules are called **protocols**.

So far, you must have encountered some of the following **protocols**:

- `IP(Internet Protocol)` - used to uniquely identify computers(_hosts_)
- `FTP`<sup>[1]</sup> - standard protocol for file transfer between two hosts.
- `HTTP` - key protocol for data transfer across World Wide Web.
-  `SMTP` - used for mail transfer

Some of the **protocols** used are hidden from the user, while others can be spotted by accessing a web page:

```
// the HTTPS protocol is used
https://example.com
```
In human communication, we can think if _English_ as a **protocol**. It defines rules for the parties to follow, and hence "speak the same language". However, a single protocol might not be enough. For example, an additional rule that states _"two persons shouldn't speak at the same time"_ should be included. In the same way, communication over networks requires multiple **protocols** heirarchically<sup>[2]</sup>.


###### Footnotes

1. **`FTP`** was firstly published by Abhay Bhushan in **1971**, making it over <strong>45</strong> years old.

2. **NETWORK LAYERS**
	- According to the **OSI model**(used for computer systems communication standardization) there are _7 layers of networking protocols_. From low-level  **Physical Layer** to high-level **Application Layer**.
	- Any protcol can be pinpointed to a specific layer, e.g., The `HTTP` protocol is situated on the **Session Layer** that manages continuous exchange of information.


[prev](./2.Packets.md) | [next](./4.Network-types.md)