|ch04|
|----|
|Network-Types|

# Network Types.
  There are several types of **computer networks** currently in use, _characterized_ by their **purpose** as well as their size. The **size** of a network is inferred from the _geographic area_ they occupy and the _number of devices_ that are connected to it. For historical reasons, the networking industry refers to nearly every type of design as some kind of network area. Based on these aspects, computer networks have been classified as:
  
 - **`PAN`**: personal area network.
 - **`LAN`**: local area network.
 - **`WAN`**: wireless area network.
 - **`WLAN`**: wireless local area network.
 - **`MAN`**: Metropolitan area network.
 
 #### LAN
 Local Area Network conects a _small number_ of devices, being typically used in networked office buildings, schools or homes. Due to operating in a _limited space_ LANs are usually owned, controlled and managed by a single person or organization. They also tend to use certain connectivity technologies, primarily `Ethernet`<sup>[1]</sup> and `Token Ring`<sup>[2]</sup>. This type of networks is usually characterized by **high-speed** communication and low implementation costs.
 
 #### WAN
 `WAN`,as the term implies, it is capable of spanning a large physical distance such as a town, a region a country or the entire world. The **Internet** is the largest `WAN`, spanning the Earth. A network device called **router** connects more `LANs` to a `WAN`, resulting in a **high-speed** connection as well, but with higher costs.
 
 #### WLAN
The term `WAN` is usually confused with `WLAN`. A `WLAN` is a type of `LAN` that uses wireless technology(nearly always Wi-Fi) to connect some or all computers and devices to the router, and in turn a network(e.g.**Internet**).

------- 
 ###### Footnotes.
 
 **`1.ETHERNET`**: is a family of computer networking technologies commonly used in `LANs`, `MANs` and `WANs`. It defines wiring and signalling standards for the physical layer of other `TCP/IP` stack which will be discussed later. Chances are you have already conected to a network via an **Ethernet Cable**.
 
 **`2.TOKEN RING`**: is a communication _protocol_ for `LANs`. It uses a special _3-byte_ frame called a **token** that travels around a logical "ring" of workstations or servers. This token passing is a channel access method providing fair access for all stations, and eliminating the collisions present in other access methods.
 
 
 [prev](./3.Protocols.md) | [next](5.)
