|ch01|
|---|
|Basics|

### What is Data Structure?
A **Data Structure** is a particular pattern for organizing information in order to make interacting with that information in the ways we want less expensive.

If this is unclear, let's fall back to an example, *clothes in a wardrobe*. Usually, there are two types of people:
- Those who fold their clothes and **take their time** arranging them into the wardrobe, making it much easier to pick one of those.
- Those who throw their clothes into a pile and deal with finding a specific piece of clothing when they need it.

Both are valid ways of doing laundry. The first one requires more work up-front, but less when it comes to using them. The second one takes less time when it comes to storing them, but makes the _operation_ of finding  clothes in the morning more tedious and challenging. 

This is the trade-off we have to think when we decide which data structure to use, which operations we need to perform & what would it cost us, what are the advantages? 

Let's dive in another example: consider a list of names written down alphabetically in a notebook. It is easy to find a name alphabetized list, but adding new name to the list in the correct spot is bit tedious and time consuming. Conversely, it is time consuming to find name in an unalphabetized list, but easy to add a new name.

We might describe the respective pattern of information in these two list as a "_sorted list_" and "_unsorted list_". So eventually as we study, we be able to distinguish what data structure each example represents and how to use them efficiently. 
