
|ch04|
|---|
|LinkedList|

## The LinkedList Data Structure.

The **list**, or a **sequence** is an abstract^[1] data type that represents a linear chain of values, where the same calue appear more than once. The _list_ has a first element,  **head**, and a last element,**tail**.

Because a list is linear^[2], each element other than the head and tail have unique _predecessor_ and unique _successor_.

###LinkedList
_LinkedList_ uses concept of nodes^[3] to represent its data. Think of a conga line,in which every person, but first and last, holds someone and are being held by someone. If you want to join the line to have some, you can do it without _disturbing_  more than 2 people: the one at the position j and the one at the position j-1. However, you would still need to count to get tp position i: no one has the sign above them stating their index.

The _conga line_ is **SinglyLinkedList** becasue you cannot see who is behind you. The last one(as shown in example below) still has a reference that points to nothing(or _null_).

To make it a **DoublyLinkedList**, everyone would have to hold the one behind them. In this case, you would be able to move through in both directions, from start to finish and fro finish to start.

### Dynamic Array v/s LinkedList.
No data structure is well suited for alll circumstances. A _LinkedList_ may bhave well in one case and solve the purpose, while causing troubles in another. The same is true for _Arrays_, so it's vital to choose one instead of the other.

A good example to see the difference is the implementation of the _Josephus problem_^[4]. If you consider the people in the circle being a connected _list of nodes_, then _deletion_ is easy. However, the list will not excel at finding the next person to delete because it has to iterate through n nodes.

In contrast to the list, deletion in _Dynamic arrays_ implies shifting the other elements to maintain the interbal structure. Yet, finding the nth peson is easier, by referencing their position directly.

----
##### FOOTNOTES
1. **ABSTRACT DATA TYPE**: Abstract Data Type, or ADT, means the data type cannot be implemented (i.e. represented) by itself and it needs some kinf of support in order to be used.

2. **LINEAR DATA STRUTURE**: A linear data struture means that its items are lying on the same level and are not hierarchically structured. 

3. **NODE**: A node is a data type that contains an element and references to nodes next to it. In other words, from node instance you can obtain its value and one or more neighbors.

4. **JOSEPHUS PROBLEM**: Also known as Josephus permutation, it is _count-out_ gaame. The game starts with _m_ people standing in a circle. Each turn consist of choosing a person to start the counting from and, in the sme predefined direction, count up to n. After the _nth_ person is kicked out, the ones left close the circle and start again. The game ends when there is a single person remaining.

[prev](./3.Queue.md) | [next](./5.Stack.md)