## The Stack Data Structure

The **stack** is collection of objects optimized for two things:  

- adding items
- removing the most recent-added item first.

The items are inserted and removed according to the _last-in_, _first-out_ (LIFO) principle.

Imagine how you fill a steam cooker. you can add a tray of food on the top of the existing ones, but not in the middle, only remove the last tray added. In _stack_, you are able to insert, or **push** items whenever you want, but you could only retrieve or **pop** the top element.

### Stack ADT
Independent of any language, a stack data structure should provide the following update methods: 

- **push(e)**: Adds element e to the top of the stack.

- **pop()**: If the stack is not empty, it _removes and returns_ the top element.
- **top()** : _Returns_ the top element.
- **isempty()** : _Returns_ `true` if there is no elements in a stack, `false` otherwise.
- **size()** : _Returns_ the number of elements in the stack.

--
###### Stack implemetation is available in different programming languages:

- **`Java`** : You can instantiate a Stack object through `Stack` class. The Insertion method is called `push`, while the removal one is `pop`

- **`JavaScript`** : There is no special Stack prototype is JavaScript. The Array prototype, however , supports the `push` and `pop` methods.
- **`Python`** : There isn't any python `Stack` module. A `list`m however, can be used as a stack through the `append` and `pop` methods.
- **`C++`** : Stacks in C++ are part of the `std::stack` library. In this case, elements can be inserted by using `push` and removed by `pop`.

[Explore More](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Data_Structures/Stacks_and_Queues)

 